# Meeting Notes: Weekly Team Sync - Documentation Platform

**Date:** August 8, 2025  
**Time:** 2:00 PM - 2:45 PM EST  
**Duration:** 45 minutes  
**Meeting Type:** Sprint Planning & Review  

## Attendees

- @mhenke (Lead)  
- @sarah-dev (Engineering)  
- @alex-pm (Product)  
- @jamie-design (Design)  

## Agenda

1. Chroniclr deployment status  
2. User feedback on generated documents  
3. Template enhancement priorities  
4. Sprint 12 planning  
5. Blockers and dependencies  

## Discussion Summary

### 1. Chroniclr Deployment Status  
- **Status:** 85% Complete  
- **Completed:**  
  - GitHub Actions workflow operational  
  - Initial templates deployed (summary, initiative-brief, changelog)  
  - Basic label-to-document-type mapping functional  
  - PR automation functioning correctly  
- **In Progress:**  
  - Claude API key integration (Sarah working on secrets management)  
  - Discussion label adoption by team (Alex creating training materials)  
- **Blocked:**  
  - Advanced template features waiting for API access  

### 2. User Feedback Summary  
- **Positive Feedback:**  
  - "Love the automatic generation! Saves me 2-3 hours per week" - Marketing team  
  - "Templates are clean and professional looking" - Engineering leads  
  - "Finally, our meeting notes are consistent across teams" - PM team  
- **Issues Identified:**  
  - Some technical details get lost in summarization (3 reports)  
  - Stakeholder identification needs improvement (5 reports)  
  - Generated docs sometimes miss action items from discussions  
  - Cross-references between documents not working reliably  
- **Feature Requests:**  
  - Custom templates per project type (High priority)  
  - Integration with Slack notifications (Medium priority)  
  - PDF export capability (Medium priority)  
  - Version history for generated documents (Low priority)  

### 3. Template Enhancement Priorities  
- **Sprint 12 Priorities (Next 2 weeks):**  
  1. **Critical:** Fix stakeholder detection algorithm  
     - Analyze Git commit history for contributor identification  
     - Parse @mentions in discussion content  
     - Integrate with GitHub team memberships  
  2. **High:** Improve action item extraction  
     - Better parsing of checkbox lists  
     - Deadline detection from natural language  
     - Assignment inference from discussion context  
  3. **Medium:** Conditional template sections  
     - Show/hide content based on discussion labels  
     - Project-type specific formatting  
     - Audience-aware language adjustment  

### 4. Sprint 12 Planning  
- **Sprint Goals:**  
  - Improve document quality based on user feedback  
  - Reduce manual post-processing by 60%  
  - Achieve 95% user satisfaction score  
- **Story Point Allocation:**  
  - Stakeholder detection: 8 points (Sarah)  
  - Action item extraction: 5 points (Mike)  
  - Template conditionals: 13 points (Sarah + Alex)  
  - User training materials: 3 points (Alex)  
  - Bug fixes: 5 points (Jamie)  
- **Definition of Done:**  
  - All user stories meet acceptance criteria  
  - Test coverage >90% for new features  
  - Documentation updated  
  - Stakeholder approval on generated samples  

## Decisions Made

1. **API Key Management:** Sarah will implement HashiCorp Vault integration for secure key storage.  
2. **Training Approach:** Alex will create interactive training sessions rather than static documentation.  
3. **Template Architecture:** Move to component-based templates for better maintainability.  
4. **User Feedback:** Implement weekly feedback collection via GitHub Discussions.  
5. **Performance:** Set SLA of <30 seconds for document generation.  

## Action Items

| Task                                      | Assignee   | Due Date   | Status   |
|-------------------------------------------|------------|------------|----------|
| Complete Claude API key integration with Vault | @sarah-dev | Aug 10, 2025 | In Progress |
| Implement Git history analysis for stakeholder detection | @sarah-dev | Aug 14, 2025 | Not Started |
| Design component-based template architecture | @sarah-dev | Aug 16, 2025 | Not Started |
| Set up performance monitoring dashboard    | @sarah-dev | Aug 12, 2025 | Not Started |
| Create interactive training materials for discussion labeling | @alex-pm | Aug 11, 2025 | In Progress |
| Design user feedback collection process    | @alex-pm   | Aug 13, 2025 | Not Started |
| Define acceptance criteria for conditional templates | @alex-pm | Aug 9, 2025 | Completed |
| Conduct user satisfaction survey           | @alex-pm   | Aug 15, 2025 | Not Started |
| Create mockups for enhanced template layouts | @jamie-design | Aug 14, 2025 | Not Started |
| Design PDF export template variations      | @jamie-design | Aug 18, 2025 | Not Started |
| Update brand guidelines for generated documents | @jamie-design | Aug 16, 2025 | Not Started |
| Review accessibility compliance for templates | @jamie-design | Aug 12, 2025 | Not Started |
| Set up staging environment for template testing | @mhenke    | Aug 9, 2025 | Completed |
| Configure monitoring alerts for workflow failures | @mhenke    | Aug 11, 2025 | Not Started |

## Next Steps

- Sarah to finalize API key integration and stakeholder detection features.  
- Alex to complete training materials and feedback collection process.  
- Jamie to focus on template design updates and accessibility compliance.  
- Mike to monitor sprint progress and ensure blockers are addressed promptly.  

## Follow-up Items

- Confirm HashiCorp Vault setup approval from the infrastructure team.  
- Request OpenAI API quota increase for advanced ML features.  
- Legal review of third-party libraries for PDF export.  

## Resources Shared

- [Sprint 12 Planning Document](#)  
- [User Feedback Summary](#)  

## Next Meeting

- **Date:** August 15, 2025  
- **Agenda Items:**  
  - Sprint 12 demo and retrospective  
  - Sprint 13 planning  
  - Q4 roadmap review  
  - User feedback analysis  

---

**References:**

- [Original Discussion](#)  

_These meeting notes were automatically generated by Chroniclr from GitHub discussion #3_