# Meeting Notes: Project Documentation Strategy

**Date:** 2025-08-13  
**Time:** 10:00 AM  
**Duration:** 1 hour  
**Meeting Type:** Strategy Planning

## Attendees

- Michael Henke (@mhenke)  
- Sarah Chen (Engineering Lead)  
- Alex Rodriguez (Project Manager)  
- Jamie Park (Design Lead)  

## Agenda

1. Discuss challenges with current documentation processes  
2. Review proposed automation strategy using Chroniclr  
3. Gather stakeholder feedback  
4. Define action items and next steps  

## Discussion Summary

### Objectives
- Automate documentation generation from discussions to save time and ensure consistency.  
- Maintain uniform formatting across all project documentation.  
- Reduce manual documentation overhead by 80%.  
- Ensure stakeholders have access to up-to-date information at all times.  

### Current Challenges
- Manual documentation is time-consuming and inefficient.  
- Documents quickly become outdated, leading to miscommunication.  
- Inconsistent formatting across team members creates confusion.  
- Important decisions often get lost in chat threads, making them hard to reference later.  

### Proposed Approach
- Leverage Chroniclr to automatically generate:  
  1. Project summaries from planning discussions.  
  2. Initiative briefs from feature requests.  
  3. Meeting notes from decision threads.  
  4. Changelogs from release discussions.  

### Success Criteria
- Documentation is generated within 5 minutes of discussion creation.  
- All generated documents adhere to consistent templates.  
- Achieve an 80% reduction in documentation time as reported by the team.  
- Eliminate outdated documents from the project wiki.  

### Stakeholder Feedback
- **Sarah Chen (Engineering Lead):** Supports the idea, citing significant time savings. Suggested implementing a review process for sensitive information in auto-generated documents.  
- **Alex Rodriguez (PM):** Praised the automation aspect and recommended adding version control for generated documents and ensuring integration with the existing wiki.  
- **Jamie Park (Design Lead):** Highlighted the importance of consistent formatting for user-facing documentation and requested customizable templates for different project types.  

## Decisions Made

1. Move forward with Chroniclr as the automation tool for documentation.  
2. Incorporate a review process for sensitive content in auto-generated documents.  
3. Customize templates to accommodate different project types.  

## Action Items

| Task                                      | Assignee       | Due Date   | Status   |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------- | -------- |
| Configure Chroniclr for this repository   | Michael Henke  | 2025-08-10 | ✅ Done  |
| Test with sample discussions              | Sarah Chen     | 2025-08-12 | ✅ Done  |
| Train team on discussion labeling         | Alex Rodriguez | 2025-08-15 | ⏳ Pending |
| Monitor and refine templates              | Jamie Park     | Ongoing    | ⏳ Ongoing |
| Set up review process for sensitive content | Sarah Chen     | 2025-08-20 | ⏳ Pending |

## Next Steps

- Begin testing with discussions 1-3 to validate the automated generation workflow.  
- Collect team feedback during the testing phase to refine the process.  
- Schedule follow-up meeting to review testing results and finalize the implementation plan.  

## Follow-up Items

- Confirm integration of Chroniclr with the existing project wiki.  
- Develop a version control system for auto-generated documents.  
- Finalize customizable templates for different project types.  

## Resources Shared

- Chroniclr setup guide  
- Initial templates for summary, initiative brief, and changelog  

## Next Meeting

- **Date:** 2025-08-20  
- **Agenda Items:**  
  1. Review testing results from discussions 1-3.  
  2. Finalize review process for sensitive content.  
  3. Plan full rollout of Chroniclr for all projects.  

---

**References:**

- [Original Discussion](https://github.com/discussions/1)

_These meeting notes were automatically generated by Chroniclr from GitHub discussion #1_